# Digital_Capitalism
This repository contains the term paper of the course Digital Capitalism.

## Contributor 
Lisa Golla 

## Facebook: The criminal bank of social capital - I like?
Digital capitalism depends on the appropriation and exploitation of private data. Due to the fact that the data is collected by monitoring user’s behavior, it has been defined as surveillance capitalism. A further key aspect is the monetization of the collected data in order to use that information for targeted marketing and advertising. What can be observed during that process is a rise of interest concerning digital platforms in governing the user’s behavior to maximize profit [1], [2]. Facebook is one of the most representative and successful companies of digital capitalism, and manifests clearly a structure of government which will be shown and reasoned. During the course of this essay it will also be presented that in addition to the feature of governance, that is a characteristic element also for other digital platforms, Facebook’s power to govern relies on the monopolistic control over so-called social capital. Moreover, as will be elaborated, the character of that bank of social capital reveals itself to be exploitative, monopolistic, and unscrupulous. Whereas Facebook’s concentration of power can be considered as alarming, there is also another aspect which deserves some attention. Specifically, there is evidence that Facebook is extracting the private data of the user’s in abusive and unlawful ways. While the process can be described as deliberate criminal strategy, it manifests in data crimes being defined in more detail section ??. In Particular, it will be discussed what patterns can be observed in the big tech companies, as well as why there is so little done yet connected to the challenges in this field emerging when trying to act against the crimes of digital capitalism. In parallel, the resulting structural effects are pointed out. The last part of the essay stresses the imperilment the commitment of data crimes
and the government of social capital are causing.
